---
title: dev.ac.uk | How can we teach coding to scientists? | Matthew Brett, University of Birmingham
layout: default
---

### 13. How can we teach coding to scientists? - Matthew Brett, University of Birmingham

     <iframe class="render-viewer" src="https://render.githubusercontent.com/view/pdf?commit=d0ed3378dd83a242629f8935b3aad3303bf93870&amp;enc_url=68747470733a2f2f7261772e67697468756275736572636f6e74656e742e636f6d2f6d6174746865772d62726574742f6465762e61632e756b2f643065643333373864643833613234323632396638393335623361616433333033626639333837302f6465766163756b5f736c696465732e706466&amp;nwo=matthew-brett%2Fdev.ac.uk&amp;path=devacuk_slides.pdf&amp;repository_id=121233478&amp;repository_type=Repository#bde1f2a9-fe59-41ca-bf3f-d38bee0ed499" sandbox="allow-scripts allow-same-origin allow-top-navigation">Viewer requires iframe.</iframe>

**Description:** Many scientists, myself included, have found themselves learning how
to be developers.   We have had to do this in order to do our
scientific work efficiently, correctly, and in a way that can be
shared.   Coding is at the heart of modern data analysis.  There is a
great deal of agreement that we need to teach many or maybe all
students how to code, but - how do we do that?  Should we teach coding
separately from data analysis or statistics?  Do we need to use easy
tools, or can we get away with teaching "best practice", including
testing and version control?  Should we teach coding everywhere - to
arts and science students alike?  If we are going to do that, how will
the universities we work in have to change, and how will we get there?
  What can we do for the students who find this very hard to learn?

I will present the various approaches that I know of, including
interactive code / text Jupyter Notebooks, referring forwards to the following session by Tony Hirst.  I will talk about some
recent courses I have been involved in that have tried to teach these
methods, in Berkeley and Birmingham.  We will stop from time to
discuss the issues that arise, and think of new ways of thinking about
pitching and teaching.  I hope we'll come to a shared understanding of
how to iterate towards a real solution to this urgent problem

All the talk materials are in my [github
repository](https://github.com/matthew-brett/dev.ac.uk).  The repository
contains the [built
slides](https://github.com/matthew-brett/dev.ac.uk/blob/master/devacuk_slides.pdf).

**Topics to be covered / discussed in questions**

* The actual role of code in science at undergraduate and graduate level
* Current state of play in terms of training and skills
* Where we'd like to be in 10 years time
* Attitudes of faculty to code and teaching
* Current initiatives for teaching code, with at least one live
demonstration of tools and approaches
* Barriers to progress, and a discussion of how to overcome them

